BLAKE2 VHDL IP Core
===================

This package provides a VHDL implementation of the BLAKE2 Cryptographic Hash
and Message Authentication Code as specified in

>	Markku-Juhani O. Saarinen and Jean-Philippe Aumasson: The BLAKE2
>	Cryptographic 	Hash and Message Authentication Code (MAC). RFC 7693,
>	Internet Engineering Task Force, November 2015.
>	DOI: https://doi.org/10.17487/RFC7693

This intellectual property (IP) core was developed in the course "Digital
Integrated Circuits Design" at the Institute of Computer Technology, Vienna
University of Technology (TU Wien).
Vienna, April 2018.

This package is licensed under the 3-clause BSD license:
https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause

The documentation is licensed under the CC BY 4.0 license:
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

Authors:
	Benedikt Tutzer
	Dinka Milovancev

Supervisors:
	Christian Krieg
	Martin Mosbeck
	Axel Jantsch


CONTENTS
--------

1) The top entity is implemented in `blake2.vhd`.

2) `blake2b.vhd` and `blake2s.vhd` contain wrappers for BLAKE2b and BLAKE2s and
 hide some generics of the `blake2` entity by setting them to the
 appropriate values for the chosen algorithm.

This repo contains a testbench for each of the two algorithms. The testbenches
compare the output of the corresponding entity to hashes generated by the
reference implementation provided in RFC 7693.

To run the tests, execute `runsim.sh`. The tests are performed using `ghdl`, so
make sure that `ghdl` is available on your system. It is possible to use
VHDL simulators other that `ghdl`. In this case the simulation script needs
to be adapted to the simulator's command-line interface.


HOW TO USE
----------

Split the message to be hashed into chunks of `BLOCK_SIZE` bytes. Send them to
the entity sequentially by setting the message port and raising `valid_in` for
one clock cycle.

`message_len` needs to be set to the number of bytes that are to be hashed in
total. This includes the additional chunk containing the key, so when a key is
used, the size of one complete chunk needs to be added to `message_len`
(128 bytes for BLAKE2b, or 64 bytes for BLAKE2s, respectively).

The length of the hash can be chosen by setting `hash_len`.

After sending one chunk, wait for `compress_ready` to be `HIGH` before sending
the next chunk. When the last chunk is sent, the input `last_chunk` needs to be
set to `HIGH`. After the last chunk is encoded, the output `valid_out` is
raised and the hash is available at the `hash` output port.


TODO
----

1. Design and implement an Advanced Extensible Interface (AXI) controller
   to include the core in a system-on-chip (SoC) design. Check out the
   following repository on github:

   https://github.com/Architech-Silica/Designing-a-Custom-AXI-Slave-Peripheral

2. Implement the core on as many different platforms as possible and report
   area, timing, power consumption, utilized resources
